.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Peter Postma <peter@pointless.nl>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 25, 2007
.Dt PPBOT.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ppbot.conf
.Nd configuration file for ppbot
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file specifies the configuration for
.Xr ppbot 1 .
This file consists of server definitions, channel definitions and
configuration parameters.
To start
.Xr ppbot 1 ,
there needs to be at least one server defined in the configuration file.
.Pp
Empty lines and lines starting with a hash character
.Pq Sq #
are ignored.
.Ss Server definition
A server is defined by the keyword
.Sq server ,
following by an unique identifier.
The configuration parameters for the server are specified between
an opening brace and a closing brace.
.Ss Channel definition
A channel is defined by the keyword
.Sq channel ,
followed by the channel name.
The configuration parameters for the channel are specified between
an opening brace and a closing brace.
.Pp
A channel may only be defined inside a server section.
.Ss Parameters
The configuration parameters start with a keyword, then one or more space
characters and the value for the keyword.
Double quote characters can be used to specify strings with spaces or
special characters in them.
.Ss Global parameters
The following parameters and arguments are recognized in the global section:
.Bl -tag -width logfile
.It Sy debug Ar boolean
.Sq yes
or
.Sq no .
If set to
.Sq yes ,
debug messages will be enabled.
These messages will be written to the logfile, so the
.Sy logfile
parameter must be configured as well.
.It Sy logfile Ar file
Specify the
.Ar file
that will be used to put the log messages in.
To enable logging, this parameter must be set to a valid path/file where
.Xr ppbot 1
can write to.
.It Sy plugin Ar file
Add and enable an external plugin.
.El
.Ss Server parameters
The following parameters and arguments are recognized in the server section:
.Bl -tag -width realname
.It Sy address Ar string
Define the address or hostname for the server to connect to.
.Em This parameter is mandatory .
.It Sy altnick Ar string
Define the alternate nickname, the nickname that will be used if the
first nickname cannot be used for some reason.
.It Sy ident Ar string
Define the user identification part.
If this parameter is not set, the value of the
.Sy nickname
will be used.
.It Sy nickname Ar string
Define the first nickname to use.
.Em This parameter is mandatory .
.It Sy password Ar string
Define the password for the server.
.It Sy port Ar number
Define the port for the server.
If this parameter is not set, the default port 6667 will be used.
.It Sy realname Ar string
Define the real name of the user.
If this parameter is not set, the value of the
.Sy nickname
will be used.
.El
.Ss Channel parameters
The following parameters and arguments are recognized in the channel section:
.Bl -tag -width logfile
.It Sy key Ar string
Define a key to use when joining the channel.
.It Sy logfile Ar file
Define a log
.Ar file
to log events in the channel to.
The format of the log file is compatible with the
.Sq eggdrop
format.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
An example
.Nm
file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
server pointless {
    address   pointless.nl
    nickname  ppbot

    channel #foobar

    channel #secret {
        key  mysecretkey
    }
}

plugin  plugins/google.so
plugin  plugins/rss.so

logfile logs/ppbot.log
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ppbot 1
